
File Directory System

1) / : It is called as root directory. It contains all the subdirectories.

2) home : It contains home directories for all users to store their personal files. (It is
similar to Documents and Setting folder in Windows OS).
Ex: /home/user1 --> user1 user home directory.
/home/user2 --> user2 user home directory.

3) bin: It contains the commands binary files. User can access the commands.
Ex: mkdir, ls, cd, ps….

4) sbin : System Binary, Just like /bin It contains the commands and files, but only root
user can access.
Ex: ifconfig, reboot, shutdown and swapon …

5) etc: etc stands for etcetra.It contains the configuration files. Ex: motd, sudoers, group,
shadow.

6) lib : It contains the system libraries.

7) proc : It contains the RAM, Process and Kernel information.

8) tmp : It contains the temporary files.

9)dev: It contains the device files. Ex: USB or any device attached to the server.

10) opt : opt stands for optional. We can use this for installing the third party softwares.

11)usr : usr stands for Unix System Resources.
It contains the binaries and libraries. WAS,IHS or DB2 etc related softwares will install
in this directory.

12)var : It contains variable files. This includes system log files(/var/log), emails
(/var/mail) and temp files needed across reboots (/var/tmp)

13)lost+found : It Contains  Recovered Files 

14)mnt : It contains temporary mount directories for mounting the file system.

15)net :It Contains Linux file hierarchy is the repository for the socket abstraction and the network protocols 

16) boot: it contains the files needed to boot the system
         For example, the GRUB boot loader's files and your Linux kernels are stored here. 
         The boot loader's configuration files aren't located here, 
         though; they're in /etc with the other configuration files.

17) root : /root is the root user home directory.

18)selinux :SELinux provides an additional layer of security for your system that is built into Linux distributions.

29)srv : It Contains Service Data 

20)sys :	It store and allows modification of the devices connected to the system.

21)tmp : It Contains temporary space, typically cleared on reboot.

22)media : It contains subdirectories where removal media devices are inserted.

23)misc : It contains miscellaneous architecture-independent data.

24)run  : It stores volatile runtime data.
“/” called root directory.
/root is the root user home directory.
